---
permalink: /research/
title: "Selected Research"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /Research/
---


<center><b>Selected research</b></center>
Currently, I'm mainly focusing on the first two projects
1. How pre-saccadic attention shapes subjective contrast perception  
  Different types of attention shape our vision in fundamentally distinct manners. Existent research has primarily focused on covert attention (without eye movements), showing that covert exogenous (involuntary) attention strengthens contrast appearance for low-contrast stimuli but diminishes it for high-contrast stimuli, whereas covert endogenous (voluntary) attention uniformly enhances contrast appearance regardless of contrast levels. However, it remains understudied how attention influences basic visual perception when saccadic eye movements are engaged. Will the presaccadic attention mimic the exogenous or the endogenous attention in shaping our vision? Using eye-tracking and psychophysics, we have found that when participants voluntarily initiated saccades, presaccadic attention bi-directionally modulates contrast appearance, surprisingly similar to exogenous attention but distinct from endogenous attention, and more notably, effect of presaccadic attention correlate with covert exogenous attention in modulating contrast appearance, suggesting a shared underlying mechanism. Ongoing work plans to explore the effects of presaccadic and exogenous attention around the visual field, and we have gained some preliminary results showing that the association/dissociation of different forms of attention differ drastically when attention is allocated in different directions.
  low- vs. high-contrast level
  the relationship with covert exogenous and endogenous attention
  the visual asymmestry
  Key words: attention, eye-movement, visual perception, psychophysics, eye-tracking
1. the meso-scale neural mechanism of attentional effect on contrast appearance
   </n>  
   Exogenous attention enhances appearance for low-contrast stimuli but attenuates appearance for high-contrast stimuli, and this bi-directional attentional effect correlates with attentional modulation of C1 ERPs which originate from initial afferent activity in V1, suggesting that the attentional modulation is tightly linked with bottom-up process. Additionally, results in our lab have shown that both presaccadic and exogenous attention attenuate high-contrast stimuli’s appearance and their effects correlate, implying that (sub)cortical regions which are responsible for the both two processes should mediate the attentional effects. Based on these findings, we speculate that superior colliculus (SC), which is critical of mediating oculomotor and transient attention signals, might play an important role in the attentional effect on appearance, probably via its interaction with LGN and V1. Taking advantage of the ultra-high-field fMRI and psychophysics, we attempt to characterize the layer-dependent attentional modulation of contrast appearance to deepen our understanding of how transient attention shapes visual perception.
  How SC, LGN(M/P layer), and V1 account for the attentional modulation of contrast appearance.
  Key words: attention, ultra high-field fMRI, visual perception </n>
1. How adult readers skip very-high-frequency structural particle in Chinese reading </n>
  Research in English reading have demonstrated that even for very-high-frequency structural particle "the", adult readers make skipping saccades of these "the"s based on both the semantic information in the sentence context and the frequency information in the para-foveal, within very short durations (~200-250 ms, the duration of a saccade in normal reading). However, Chinese is a totally different language compared with alphabetic language, e.g., with no space between characters and words, more visually complex characters. Whether Chinese readers can quickly integrate the contextual semantic information and the frequency information in parafoveal and use it to initiate saccade is debated. Our results showed that this is the case for Chinese readers, that is, they can integrate this two kinds of information to control their skipping saccades during reading. </n>  
  Readers do not fixate every word during reading. About one third of words in English and half of individual characters in Chinese are skipped during reading. Previous studies suggested that readers were more likely to skip a word when it was previewed by a very-high-frequency word, like "the" in English and "de (的)" in Chinese, and they suggested that readers based skipping decisions on parafoveal word information rather than on sentence context. However, in these studies, the very-high-frequency preview word (the or de) was always implausible given the sentence context. It is an open question whether parafoveal word information interacts with sentence context to influence skipping decisions. Therefore, the current research orthogonally manipulated the preview information of the target character (identical or de preview) and the plausibility of de (plausible or implausible) to examine this question. The major results indicated that readers were more likely to skip the target character and made longer outgoing saccade length across the boundary in the de preview condition than in the identical preview condition. What is more important, the interaction between the plausibility of de and preview condition was significant: Readers' higher probability of skipping the target character and longer outgoing saccade length in the de preview condition than in the identical preview condition was only significant when de was plausible, suggesting that parafoveal word information and context information can act as a joint constraint on skipping decision in reading Chinese.
  Key words: eye-movement, reading, parafoveal processing, eye-tracking, psycholinguistics


